>>REGINA MEREDITH: We're all
familiar with the nature of pi
or the Fibonacci sequence,
but our guest, Marty Leeds,
has created a new
numeric system based
on a system of numbers of one
through seven and back again.
His life has been
lived in numbers,
and he's going to share what
numbers are the basis of,
including the notion
of universal creation,
but Marty, welcome.
>>MARTY LEEDS: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Before
we get to all that,
your mind played in a
lot of different areas,
and I just need to make a
quick statement before we start
getting into the math of it.
I can't figure out how two
negatives make a positive,
and my sweetie is a math
genius and has tried
to draw models of this for me.
So I'm not completely ignorant,
but I'm more math challenged,
so you'll have to
explain it to my level.
Hopefully the people watching
this, our viewers, are more
lit up than I am.
>>LEEDS: Sure.
>>REGINA: But first of
all, you really started
coming from a
place that had more
to do with mythology,
symbolism, philosophy.
Let's talk about this
time of your life.
You were looking for something
and all of your explorations
and what they were bringing you.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, basically in
my mid 20s I kind of underwent
an existential crisis--
basically just hit a wall and
was like, what am I doing here?
What's the meaning of life?
Where am I going?
>>REGINA: What were you doing
at that time in your life?
Because a lot of
young man hit this,
so I want to know
what it looked like.
>>LEEDS: Being a punk.
>>REGINA: You were
a little punk.
>>LEEDS: Yeah.
Yeah, pretty rebellious.
Playing rock and roll bands.
Dropped out of college--
those sorts of things.
So I basically just got to
a point where I was mid-20s,
maybe 28, something like that,
where I basically just started
asking some of the
major questions.
And so that sort of led down a
road to looking at everything
I could get my hands on.
And I've always been a
pretty voracious reader
since I was like maybe 16,
17 or something like that,
and then it really kicked
up in the late 20s.
And so it was psychology, and
mythology, and that eventually
led to math.
>>REGINA: Where are you finding
that your life as a punk
was just becoming
somewhat unsatisfying,
or was it just like
you're actually using that
as a vehicle trying to reach
something more inside yourself?
>>LEEDS: I think just
from a very early age
I just kind of saw the
world as really screwed up,
and so trying to
make a place, trying
to find my place in the
world was very difficult.
And so I think that
was really sort
of the impetus
behind reaching out
into all of these
different avenues
and trying to figure out, what
am I doing here, kind of thing.
And so that obviously
led to-- well,
like I said-- mathematics,
but religion and spirituality
had a huge part of that.
>>REGINA: We'll get into
that, but what's interesting
is you said around
28, which classically
in astrology that would be
called the Saturn return.
So you were kind of hitting
the big questions just
about the time when classically
a person should be doing that,
too.
So you were really listening to
higher cycles within yourself.
>>LEEDS: Looking
back, yeah, maybe.
I could say that
at the time, no.
>>REGINA: Let's go into
some of the other areas
that you were studying at the
time, including symbolism,
theology, mythology, and so
forth, and kind of give us
a little guided
tour as to what you
gleaned from each one of these
and what your influences were.
>>LEEDS: Well, really it
ended up coming back to really
putting my--
how do I want to say this?
Basically, when I went
out into the world
and started looking at all
of these different things,
I didn't have anything to grasp.
Any--
>>REGINA: And you didn't know
what you were looking for.
>>LEEDS: And I didn't know
what I was looking for, yeah,
so that ended up leading
to this idea of mathematics
as the foundation-- that, if
I was going to view the world,
I could view it
through something that
had some substance,
had verifiability,
and it was demonstrable,
and all of those things.
>>REGINA: It had some precedent.
>>LEEDS: What's that?
>>LEEDS: Yes, exactly.
So basically what
I ended up doing
was focusing on
mathematics, and kind
of viewing all of these
things through the lens
of mathematics, and really
learning it all on myself--
autodidact.
So I basically even remember
looking back in my notebook.
I was going through and doing
multiplication tables again,
something I had learned 20
years earlier or whatever,
but basically I wanted to
just start from scratch,
and so I learned
multiplication tables,
learned the
qualities of numbers.
And then that got into
esoterica, certain numbers that
ended up showing up a lot--
864, 108, 32, 33,
those sorts of things.
And so, yeah, that's
kind of where it led.
>>REGINA: And so where
did the touching-- which
one of these disciplines had the
most profound touching points
for you in terms of looking at
it through the lens of math,
like theology versus symbolism,
which is a little easier.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, I mean, I think
theology was the big one,
because ultimately that's
the question that is on most
people's minds when
they go to do a search
for what's the meaning of life--
is what is my relationship
to the divine?
So when I got to mathematics,
I realized that--
and this is talked about
quite extensively in esoteric
literature and things like--
that basically mathematics is
sort of this alphabet of God--
is the language of God.
And so that, if you were
working with mathematics,
you were actually
speaking this language.
Now, this is how
basically modern science
comes to understand
the world-- is
through the language
of mathematics.
They don't look at it in the
same viewpoint, of course,
but when I went in there
and looked at this stuff,
I realized that there was
so much more to mathematics
and the relationship to
religions that basically
nobody was really covering.
There was a few
authors here and there
that we were talking about
it, but that was about it.
And so that I just really
just dove in and then realized
that so many of these things
within literally pretty
much every religion out there
has a numeric or geometric
metaphor to it.
And so that's really
what kind of lit my fire.
>>REGINA: So if we just
want to get to the point,
so the meaning of life is 108?
>>LEEDS: Actually it is 42.
When you look at our
number line, number one,
42 is the answer of
life in Douglas Adams'
book "Hitchhiker's
Guide to the Galaxy."
There's 42 generations
from Abraham to Christ,
42 principles of the maat.
So when you say, hey,
42 is answer life,
it actually is, because you
can actually go and find
why 42 is important.
If you walk up your number
line, just ascending up
a number line--
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11,
12-- when you get to
13, 14, and 15, what
you have within
those three numbers
is the number 3.1415 just as
it unfolds in our number line.
If you look at those three
numbers and add them up,
it's 42.
So 13 plus 14 plus 15 is 42.
So really when they talk about
the 42 principles of maat
being the principles
of life, law, order,
and truth, that sort
of thing, there's
actual math to that-- is
what they're pointing to,
and what they're
pointing to, of course,
is pi, which is one of
these geometric archetypes
that the creator
has given us to help
us understand the creation.
>>REGINA: And so for you, you
didn't study classic gematria
as it's been laid out in Bible
code and some other works that
happened-- or did you?
Did you already look
into all of that?
>>LEEDS: I had.
When I was looking
at into numbers,
I looked into gematria for
quite a bit and especially
within English, because that's
really the only language
I know besides math.
And I saw that most of the
ciphers that had been created--
simple, ordinal, reduction,
Pythagorean, Chaldean,
and there's some
other people that
have come up with ciphers--
everything was a force fit.
Everything seemed like people
were forcing conclusions,
and that's [INAUDIBLE].
>>REGINA: Well, and most
of it was based on Hebrew
to begin with.
It wasn't based on the
English alphabet, so there
you get some--
yeah, there's your
first challenge.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, so that's the
one thing I noticed right away.
When you look at all of the
older languages, especially
the predominant ones--
Greek, Latin, Arabic,
and Hebrew, of course--
>>REGINA: Akkadian.
>>LEEDS: Yes, some of those.
Those languages had
predominant ciphers to them.
So there was a
fundamental mathematics
behind each one of
those languages,
and then basically holy
books, like holy scripture,
was actually written with a
mathematical foundation to it.
So basically I came to the point
where I was asking, OK, well,
does English have that?
Is English considered what
would be a sacred language?
Now we know that we have the
whole Holy Bible is written
in English and stuff like
that, but as far as I knew,
there wasn't any
predominant cipher for it.
And even in esoteric
literature, even
like Manly Palmer
Hall, who's written--
>>REGINA: Manly P. Hall.
>>LEEDS: Everyone
knows Manly P. Hall.
Even he has said, in
the several lectures,
that he doesn't think
that English was written
with a mathematical foundation,
and I just always thought
that was weird considering you
had holy books written in it.
So that ended up a pursuit
of trying to figure that out
and basically just
a revelatory moment.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it was just
an incongruity in your mind
that had to somehow be reduced.
>>LEEDS: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: I know you're
not a fan of reductionism,
but, in essence,
that is what you
had to do through
this process, right?
>>LEEDS: Yeah, pretty much.
Like I said, just trying to
figure this stuff out myself
with no help-- and so, yeah.
>>REGINA: So what
did you discover
in that journey regarding
the sacredness or not
of the English language?
What did you find that is
embedded in this language?
>>LEEDS: The most
important thing
that I think people need to
understand when they look
at gematria is
that you basically
have sacred principles
crafted within the language
and within every
single language.
And now I've gone into
Hebrew and looked at that,
decoded Genesis 1:1 in Hebrew.
I literally just put
out a video two days ago
on Greek and English looking at
the holy name of Jesus Christ
and showing how the Greek cipher
and English cipher that I've
uncovered is very congruent.
In fact, you have some of
the same principles encoded
with both names.
So when you look at English,
what you are looking at is,
when you--
for instance, we can
go over the cipher,
but when you look
at the number seven,
seven encodes the number 22.
So S-E-V-E-N is six.
>>REGINA: That's like two
negatives make a positive.
How does it encode 22?
>>LEEDS: So S-E-V-E-N,
if you put the--
>>REGINA: Oh, I see.
If you spell out the number.
>>LEEDS: Yes, exactly.
So S-E-V-E-N is 65551 equals--
>>REGINA: I see how you get it.
>>LEEDS: --22.
Well, any mathematician that
sees, hey, I got 22 in seven.
Well, 22 divided by 7 is
a common approximation
of pi, 3.142.
So basically what
you have is what
you could call
universal archetypes,
or cosmological constants, or
mathematical constants embedded
within all of these things.
We could go to billiards.
We could go to dice.
We could go to the Ouija board.
We could go to all
of holy scripture.
It's like I said.
I mean, when you look at
especially the name like Jesus
Christ, because you have the
whole New Testament essentially
written about this
character, the things that
are embedded in it--
>>REGINA: Is it the same if
it's Yeshua versus Jesus?
>>LEEDS: So that's
what I actually go over
in this last video, and
I think I go over it
in some of the books, as
well, but you basically
have an evolution of a name.
So it starts as Yeshua.
Then it's Iesus and Iesis.
I think that's Latin--
Greek, Latin.
And in English, it's
Jesus, of course.
So then you have
to say, OK, well,
I have to take that particular
name into the language
that it's written in, use that
cipher, and then see, hey,
what's encoded in there?
>>REGINA: See if it matches up.
>>LEEDS: Exactly.
So when it comes
to, like I said,
the major languages,
we know for a fact
that these languages
were written
with a mathematical foundation,
and we know for a fact
that those Bibles were written
with a mathematical foundation.
So what I did is I said, OK,
we take the sevenfold cipher
that you discussed, put
it to work in the Bible,
and see what we can uncover.
>>REGINA: So regardless of
the language-- for example,
if you go from Genesis
1 to Genesis 2,
you have two totally
different stories.
It's two different authors,
two different stories,
two different origins, two
different sets of gods--
totally different.
So does the author,
regardless of the language,
have its own kind of
cipher or imprint to it
that you have to take
into consideration
because of the intention
behind the writing.
>>LEEDS: That's an
excellent question and one
that I don't think we can even
answer, because we'd basically
have to go back in
time, and really
get sort of an objective
viewpoint of history,
and say, who decoded this?
Who was the first-- who
were the people that--
>>REGINA: You can tell they're
different authors, for sure.
>>LEEDS: Yes, you can tell that
there are different writers.
I mean, if you look
at Timothy as opposed
to St. John's revelation,
it's two completely.
>>REGINA: Totally different.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, it looks--
just the language
in and of itself.
So you can see that--
>>REGINA: It's just
a composite document
with a myriad of authors.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, so
you can see that.
I mean, from what I
understand anyway,
when the King James Bible
was translated from the--
>>REGINA: Francis Bacon, right?
>>LEEDS: Probably right.
>>REGINA: That's pretty
much the thought now,
and he did have
understanding of gematria--
numerology,
astronomy, astrology.
He had that basis.
>>LEEDS: Yes, I mean, my
conjecture is that you
basically had a guild of writers
at that point that were--
>>REGINA: All skilled
in the higher arts.
>>LEEDS: Of course.
Right.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>LEEDS: Esotericism, symbolism,
numerology, astrology,
everything.
And so basically what you
had is linguists, polyglots
that were looking at these
different Hebrew, and Greek,
and all that stuff, and then
translating that into English,
and basically canonizing it.
So all of these different--
from my own studies,
anyway, all of these
different authors
that were putting together
the King James Bible
were actually using
the same cipher
and coding the same cosmological
principles because they all
knew them, because
they had learned them
from the other languages.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about the cipher.
What is a cipher?
We'll just start from beginning.
>>LEEDS: What is the cipher?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>LEEDS: So the
cipher, basically--
the construction of the cipher
is based on natural principles
that everybody knows,
one being your hands.
So if you look at
your human body--
there's 26 letters in
the English alphabet
first and foremost.
If you look at--
>>REGINA: And there's what,
24 in Hebrew, 22 in Greek?
>>LEEDS: 24 in Greek.
22 in Hebrew.
>>REGINA: 22 in Hebrew.
The other way around.
>>LEEDS: Depending if you--
finals-- that's 27.
There's 23 in Latin.
>>REGINA: Which is
what makes gematria
a difficult
proposition, because you
have to find the numeric value
in all the languages, then.
>>LEEDS: Yes, and what's
actually interesting
is that, when you look at
all these different languages
and you say, OK, well this
language has 24 letters,
this has 22, this has
26, how could there
be any sort of correlation
between the two?
Well, when you actually
look at the mathematics
and you understand the
language of mathematics,
then you can say, oh, if I
find 365 in this language,
and 365 here, and 365 here--
>>REGINA: Without forcing it.
>>LEEDS: Without forcing it.
>>REGINA: Organically.
>>LEEDS: Organically.
Well, once again, it
has to be demonstrable.
It has to be verifiable.
If I come up with
it, you have to be
able to come with
the same thing.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>LEEDS: Otherwise, we're
shooting in the dark.
>>REGINA: Someone's idea.
>>LEEDS: Exactly right.
So that's the idea.
So how is the cipher built?
26 letters in the
English alphabet.
And what I did is I split
the alphabet in two--
13 letters and 13 letters.
>>REGINA: Up to M, right?
>>LEEDS: A through M.
>>REGINA: And N [INAUDIBLE].
>>LEEDS: N through
Z. And the reason
I did that initially was because
of the duality of creation,
basically.
I mean, if you look at your
entire body, your body's--
I mean just as it goes
down my shirt here,
it's symmetrical
left and right--
left eye, right eye, left
hemisphere of the brain,
right ears, breasts,
shoulders, hands.
Everything is mirrored.
It's symmetrical.
So basically I
said, OK, well I'm
going to take A through
M and N through Z.
>>REGINA: So you did
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
>>LEEDS: And then I went
>>REGINA: 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
>>LEEDS: 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.
>>REGINA: So you get
13 on each side--
26.
>>LEEDS: You get one through
seven back down to one.
>>REGINA: But feminine
and masculine I assume?
>>LEEDS: Feminine and
masculine-- that whole idea.
You have black and whites, Adam
and Eve, up and down, Shiva
and Shakti, that kind of thing.
So now, when people say, well,
why did you walk up to one
through seven and
back down to one--
>>REGINA: Right, because
they say, wait a minute.
Wait a minute.
There are no eights
or nines in there.
>>LEEDS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: That's what I thought.
That's what I was thinking.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, pretty
much everyone says that.
And you say, well, if
you actually look at it,
it's really not anything
mystical at all,
because this is just another
way to square a number.
So if you go 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1--
you add those up.
It's 49.
Well, 7 squared is 49, and
seven is that central pillar.
So and then people
say, well, yeah,
why don't you use
eight and nine?
Well, you can create eight
and nine with this cipher.
So it's basically
just saying that--
>>REGINA: Just values of eight
and nine with the cipher.
>>LEEDS: Exactly.
So another interesting thing for
people to really kind of grasp
is that, when you have
the creation of languages
and you have numbers--
so if I said to you,
22, well, I could just
write the number 22 to you,
and you'd be like, oh, I know.
That's 22.
There's really no logical reason
that you would actually write
out T-W-E-N-T-Y-T-W-O, unless
you were going to actually
incorporate or encode something
particular in that word that
tells you about a number.
One really interesting thing
is, if you look at trimesters--
trimesters in English gematria.
We all know trimesters
is nine months--
three, three, and three months.
So that would be 39 weeks--
13, 13, 13.
52 weeks in a year.
Well, trimesters equals 52.
You say, well,
shouldn't it equal 39?
Wouldn't that make sense?
Then you actually do the
numerical equivalents
of the words 52,
and it equals 39.
>>REGINA: Again,
using the dematria.
>>LEEDS: Exactly.
So you find the same thing.
>>REGINA: Or gematria.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, I've heard
it pronounced both ways,
so potato, "pa-tah-to."
So then when you look
at there's other things,
like the number
9, like N-I-N-E--
this equals 12.
Well, 9 and 12 is
3/4 of a circle,
same thing as trimesters--
39, 52.
So you can see a
lot of these things
are embedded within the numbers.
>>REGINA: And so you start
to say earlier there are kind
of natural elements
of the cipher,
such as what's evident
in the physical world,
and one of them brought
up was the 10 fingers--
10 fingers, 10 toes.
How's this factor in?
>>LEEDS: To answer that
question, let's not
talk about gematria.
Let's talk about numerology,
because this is a better way
to approach this, I think.
Most modern
mathematicians-- if you
go to any sort of university
or academic setting,
they're going to
pooh pooh numerology.
They're going to be like, oh,
that's just a pseudo science.
Don't pay any attention to that.
Well, actually if you
look on your hands,
you can actually
find out that there
is a quantity and a quality,
and it's available right
on your hands.
So we'll walk through this.
Basic numerological function
is basically saying, hey,
I'm going to take
the number 22--
most people know this.
I'm going to take
2 plus 2 equals 4.
Well, if you have
a quantity of 22,
that quantity does
not equal 4, and this
is why numerology is
essentially pooh poohed.
Well, if you look on
your hands, you actually
have 14 phalanges of your hands.
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14.
14 plus 14 is 28.
Well, you have two
thumbs and eight fingers.
And what's 2 plus 8?
It's 10.
Let's got to one hand.
14 phalanges on one hand.
What's 1 plus 4?
It's 5.
You have one thumb
and four fingers.
So this numerological function
that's essentially dismissed--
>>REGINA: Forwards and
backwards it still works.
What about a little guy I
knew who had two extra thumbs?
What's that mean?
>>LEEDS: Well, he's--
>>REGINA: He had six.
He had two thumbs
and four fingers.
>>LEEDS: Funny enough,
my brother and my father
were both born with six toes.
>>REGINA: Oh, were they?
That's interesting.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, on one foot.
So that's interesting.
>>REGINA: We can't use
that as part of the cipher.
>>LEEDS: But as you can see--
I mean, just things like
that where it's like, OK,
numerology has no function
in the real world.
That's nonsense.
It actually works right
on your two hands.
>>REGINA: So now let's get into
the whole notion of alchemy,
the stage of alchemy.
Let's talk about-- no,
let's talk about your name.
So you started with yourself
because you were really
looking to dig into
finding out who
you were amidst all of this.
And so you have a
very Irish name.
You were born-- please share.
>>LEEDS: So Marty
Leeds is a pseudonym.
So my real name is Kevin
Ryan Martin McNally.
And then I also have
another pseudonym
called Claudia Pavonis.
>>REGINA: Claudia Pavonis.
Who is your alter
ego or feminine half?
>>LEEDS: Yeah, basically.
And all of these names were
derived before I had ever
even got the cipher.
So basically I had used Marty
Leeds for a very long time--
years-- and then
as I was writing
my first book, which was on pi.
>>REGINA: Why did you
choose Marty Leeds?
>>LEEDS: That's a
long story, actually.
Well, it's actually not
that long of a story.
>>REGINA: We have time.
>>LEEDS: OK.
Middle name is Martin,
so Ryan Martin, so Marty,
and my grandpa's
name was Martin,
so kind of just after him.
And then Leeds is actually
after a girl in high school
that I kind of like fell
for a long, long time ago,
and she kind of introduced
me to the world of poetry,
romanticizing my life,
kind of thing like that.
So it was just kind of--
>>REGINA: Higher thought.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, exactly.
So it was a kind of--
anyway, but I had come
up with that pseudonym
a long time ago never
thinking that I'd actually
use it to be an author
because I didn't think I'd
be writing books.
So Kevin Ryan Martin
McNally got Marty Leeds,
and then when I was writing
my first book, "Pi The Great
Work," which was not
even on the cipher--
I dealt with language
a little bit,
but I had come up with
the name Claudia Pavonis.
And so I had these three names.
So then I find
the cipher I don't
know how many months later or
whatever, and then I did the--
well, the whole cipher is
based on seven once again.
Then I did the numerical
equivalents of all my names.
So Marty Leeds is
38, and etc., etc.
Well, all of it added up to 143.
Well, if you do the
gematria equivalents.
>>REGINA: Which is eight.
>>LEEDS: What's that?
>>REGINA: Which is it eight.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, it
reduces down to eight,
which pi is eight, by
the way, in this cipher.
Pi is three five,
which equals eight,
but then if you actually look
at the seven visible heavenly
spheres-- sun, moon, Mercury,
Venus, Saturn, Jupiter, etc.,
you add those gematria
values up, and it's 143.
And so it was just this
moment of just holy cow.
>>REGINA: Why not embrace
the entire solar system
while I'm at it, right?
>>LEEDS: Well, and it was all
based on the number seven.
And so it was just like,
is that a coincidence?
I mean, how is that possible?
Further, Marty Leeds encodes pi.
If you actually break down--
the name Marty
actually equals 16.
One plus six or seven.
Leeds equals 22.
22 divided by 7 is pi.
Claudia equals 22, and
it has seven letters.
22 divided by 7 is pi.
So all of these things
were encoded in these names
that I had just chosen, and
it was just this magical,
synchronistic, there's
no explanation,
it's not a nuts and bolts
answer kind of thing.
And it was things like
that changed my life.
>>REGINA: It's like
your higher part
speaking to you through
the language of numbers.
>>LEEDS: Yes and what's really
interesting about the Claudia
Pavonis thing is
that there was--
when I studied
esoterica, especially
like in native myths, and
things like that, and alchemy--
you find this really
strong in alchemy,
but there's always this idea
of the androgynous being,
that every human being is
made with electromagnetism.
So you have a male
part of you, and you
have a female part of you.
It doesn't matter
what your external--
>>REGINA: Electromagnetic.
>>LEEDS: Exactly.
It doesn't matter what
your externally is.
Interior-- so there's
this basically
spiritual or
psychological process
of merging those opposites-- man
and woman becoming one within.
And so psychologically
that's what
I was doing that
entire time, and then
to go on the other side and
then actually do the math
for it was pretty remarkable.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that
had to be pretty tippy.
Now, Claudia
Pavonis, as I recall,
has to do with part of
an alchemical process.
And the name of the book
is "A Peacock's Tail."
So now start guiding us
through what all of this means
and how it came
together for the work.
>>LEEDS: So my foray into
alchemy was really trying
to figure out--
because it's so weird.
When you look at
alchemical illustrations
and things like that,
at least for the layman,
at least for me, when I
was younger, I was like,
what do all these things mean?
Why is that, when we talk
about that androgynous being--
there's a really famous one--
I think it's by Michael Meyer.
I don't think it's by
Michael Meyer, excuse me,
but it's called Rebus.
And it's this character.
It's an androgynous being.
It's got a compass in one
hand, a square in the other.
It's got the seven
visible heavenly spheres--
heavenly bodies above
him, standing on an egg--
or standing on a dragon,
which is on an egg,
and there's a three and four.
So just all of these elements,
and I'm looking at this
and having essentially no idea
what any of this stuff means.
So then that really sent me
down a path of symbolism.
What can I extract from this?
What are they trying to say?
And so that's kind of
where I went with it,
and then when I saw that you're
basically dealing-- especially
when you talk about
the androgynous being
as far as understanding merging
the man and woman within,
I mean, there's
high spirituality
that they're trying
to purvey to people
within just a
simple illustration,
and you don't have
to say anything.
>>REGINA: So the alchemy
translated to what for you?
>>LEEDS: Well alchemy, when
you actually look at the word--
I mean, people
say it's alchemit,
and this is the black land in
Egypt, and yada, yada, yada.
>>REGINA: I think it's more
refined than that, but go on.
>>LEEDS: Exactly right.
So you hear all of these things.
Well, when I say it, I say, OK,
"al," all, and Al, and Allah.
This is all.
This is the god.
This is the eternity.
This is the eternal one.
And then you have "chemy,"
which is like chemistry.
So basically, when you
look at the word alchemy,
you're talking
about God chemistry.
Well, this is basically
just saying, OK,
how do I connect with-- how do
I transform myself chemically,
if you will, to be
one with that divine,
to actually have that
relationship with the divine.
And that, to me, is what
alchemy is all about,
and that's when you have that
transubstantiation of the soul
being from lead into gold, from
something impure to something
incorruptible.
>>REGINA: I agree
with you on that.
I mean, in the
hermetic tradition,
the metaphor for
transforming lead to gold
is really having to
do with reflecting
the bringing of the lower in
terms of understanding spirit
and connection to the higher,
from lower to the higher.
So really people use the
term alchemy so loosely now.
It seems to me that,
at the very base of it,
it means to transform something
from the lower to the higher--
I mean, in its
really dense term.
>>LEEDS: So when you
look at the word alchemy,
when I actually did the
numerics of the word in English,
it's A-L-C-H-E-M-Y, and this
is the number-- is what?
Is 1, 2, 3, 6, 5, 2.
So there's the 365.
Everybody sees that the solar
year in the name of alchemy.
Well, then this
whole thing was based
on the corollary or basically
geometric metaphors--
that basically all of this
stuff has a geometric metaphor.
You multiply those
numbers, and you
get 360, which is, of course,
the degrees of a circle.
So the whole thing is
based on the circle.
In fact, when going
back to that rebus,
there's two numbers below in the
egg, and it's three and four.
Well, in sacred
geometrical study,
heaven is known as a circle,
and Earth is known as a square.
And these are actually given
the distinctions of the numbers
three and four.
Of course, 3 plus 4 is 7.
So and then you say, well, why
is heaven a circle-- is three?
And of course, the circle
encapsulates everything,
encapsulates the
most amount of space.
>>REGINA: That
brings us to zero.
>>LEEDS: And that
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about zero.
>>LEEDS: So when you look at
particular principles within
the numbers--
so every number has
a characteristic,
has something unique about it.
When you start at zero,
it's actually a non-number.
It's the first number in our
number line not a number,
if you will.
Well, zero actually
has the qualities
of the divine within it.
If you just look at the
zero and ask the question.
So zero is--
>>REGINA: It's the only unbroken
line that can contain all.
>>LEEDS: Alpha and
omega, if you will,
the beginning and the end.
So then you look at zero,
and you say, OK, well zero
is nothing.
It's no thing.
It's immateriality.
There's nothing, yet
we have a symbol for it
so we know that
we're referencing
something that's immaterial.
And then you put that
zero behind a one,
and next thing you know it has
an order of magnitude of 10.
>>REGINA: 10, right.
>>LEEDS: So then you
say, OK, well you just
ask the zero a question.
What's your qualities?
What's your principles?
What are you there
to tell me about?
Well, it's there to tell
you about the nothingness
and immateriality of god
and the power of god.
And that's with the zero.
>>REGINA: Might the zero
contain the consciousness.
>>LEEDS: Well, the idea of--
I mean, this is an idea that's--
cross-culturally we see all
over, that basically
in the idea--
in the beginning was nothing.
In the beginning,
there was no thing.
And from that no thing, sprang--
well, in Genesis it talks
about-- and God saying,
let there be light.
So you had basically
a materiality coming
from an infinite immateriality.
Well, what's the next number?
Zero, one.
>>REGINA: Zero, one, yes.
And I mean, when I
look at it in my head,
I see it almost more you have
the hidden logos or the word.
>>LEEDS: Absolutely.
Which is the thought, which
is a creative thought,
and you have prima materia.
Masculine in logos.
Feminine prima materia.
The essence for
the creation of all
of the material reality, right?
So zero in that--
I mean, you could almost
say that from the zero,
the hidden logos and
prima materia have
to have already
met, so to speak,
and the language is
given birth through that.
And that's how I'm
seeing it in my head.
>>LEEDS: No, I think
you're right on track.
The idea is that,
essentially, in the beginning,
the great creator, the
great spirit if you
want to-- whatever
you want to call it,
imagined creation,
imagined how creation would
manifest in that immateriality.
And then when it
decided it was like, OK,
I have the perfect creation,
it gave birth to that creation.
>>REGINA: It imprinted the
prima materia, so to speak.
It blended and became--
>>LEEDS: That zero,
which is a circle--
we can view it as a circle-- the
egg of creation, if you will--
was split-- one.
And what do you have?
You have a circle,
and you have a line.
So when you just
mentioned the logos,
logos is also referred to as
the word or the word of God.
Well, then I ask
the question-- well,
this is the question I asked.
What language does God speak?
Does he speak Russian?
Does he Italian?
Does he speak English?
Does he speak Greek?
Does he speak Latin?
What language?
Which is the language that God
is speaking to everybody in?
Well, of course, God
speaks all languages,
but the one language that we
know God speaks is mathematics.
And so when you talk about
the birth of the logos,
the birth of the word, what
you're actually talking about
is the birth of a word that's
in the language of mathematics.
Well, what better candidate
do you have than pi?
And as we just went
over, the numbers zero
and one actually give us that
geometry right off the bat.
We didn't even get to two
yet and talk about duality.
We didn't get to three to
talk about the trinity.
We didn't get to four
to talk about Earth,
that sort of thing.
>>REGINA: It's
interesting, because when
I was reading that
part of the book
and I was contemplating
what you were saying,
the way I was experiencing
it is that creation itself
into anything of a
manifest position,
physical manifestation,
even if it's
in another realm of
a finer nature, that
is it possible that that
came through a sensual
experience of the
creation itself
and that the organizing
principle of it
might simply be the math?
That the actual creation
is already full?
It's full.
It has sensual content to it.
It has movement.
It has light it has color.
It has sound.
It has all of
that, but I started
seeing the math as more
or less an organizing
principle for creating the form
of all of those constituents.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, I think
I agree with that,
because basically what you
have with the mathematics
is sort of the
underpinnings of creation.
Even if we look at this
nautical shell right there,
I mean, we could say,
hey, that's five.
>>REGINA: You can see that--
>>LEEDS: We know that there's
an archetype right there.
So now the problem with a lot
of people with mathematics
is that they're not really
into mathematics, especially
when you talk about the
qualitative aspects,
but really, I mean most
numbers are very, very potent
with meaning, and actually you
can get that central aspect out
of it, which is something I
never thought out of math.
>>REGINA: Or is math
simply reflecting
the sensual principles?
So it's a kind of a
chicken or egg thing,
and I guess that debate
could go on endlessly.
The point is it does
organize everything.
>>LEEDS: And we can actually
come to understand the design,
and we can understand
that organizing principle
by understanding that canon,
that language of mathematics.
Chicken or egg-- what came
first, the chicken or egg?
There's an answer.
There's an answer
to that question.
>>REGINA: What's the answer?
>>LEEDS: The answer is the egg.
And then you say,
well, why the egg?
Why the chicken?
Why the egg?
Well, what were you born from?
How many species lay eggs?
Birds, fish, snakes.
How many species lay chickens?
Even you were born from an egg.
So when we talk about what came
first, the chicken or the egg--
and this is--
>>REGINA: Which is zero.
>>LEEDS: Zero.
And it's even ovular--
ovum, of course, ovular, ovis.
So you have that egg,
and then of course you
look at all the mythologies.
You have the cosmic
egg in Egypt.
I mean, you could just
go on and on with that.
>>REGINA: But it's, again,
being born from the no thing--
>>LEEDS: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --and the zero,
which is the planet.
>>LEEDS: Which is spirituality.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
There was a lovely
physicist I knew once
upon a time named Mark
Cummings, and when
people talked of black holes--
and I think Nassim Haramein and
then Samantha [INAUDIBLE] also
went the same direction-- but
when they spoke of black holes,
they spoke of the fact that
you're talking about a plenum.
We think of it as
no thing, nothing,
sucking in everything toward
it, when, in fact, there
may be this merging of
consciousness with prima
materia, so to
speak, to be bringing
through all of creation through
this no thing, this black hole.
>>LEEDS: For me, anymore,
because I'm not an astronomer--
I'm not any of that
sort of stuff--
what I like to do is focus on
the things that I can know--
I can know myself and
I can prove myself,
because I know that--
doing this for-- I don't
know-- seven, eight years,
whatever it's been now--
I mean, I've gotten things wrong
because I've been going off
of-- there's times when I've
gone off of faulty information.
>>REGINA: So you're
staying in the area
that you've put together.
>>LEEDS: So I'm staying in--
I know I can prove these things.
I can prove them myself.
That's what I want to focus on.
>>REGINA: So now let's
talk about the position.
Let's start talking about, for
example, the name of Jesus,
which you talked about
a little bit ago.
One thing I was wondering
is, in classical dematria,
for example, or numerology,
they tend to use addition,
but you're using multiplication,
which isn't classical,
but you have a reason for that.
So let's talk about,
like you said,
you went back and learned
the multiplication tables.
Why did you start
using multiplication
of these instead of addition?
>>LEEDS: I mean, there's a
number of things that I used,
like foundational
principles usually
that I use when I go to
investigate this stuff, those
being add, subtract,
multiply, and divide,
because those are
basic functions,
mathematical functions, that
essentially everybody knows.
You talk to somebody
about algebra,
you talk to them
about trigonometry,
you talk to them about
chaos theory, it's like,
well, I don't know.
And I don't know a
lot about that stuff,
but when you talk about a
universal sacred science,
you talk about a science that is
universal to all people, well,
it would have to be something
that everybody can understand.
Well, the one thing that
pretty much everybody can do
is add, subtract, multiply,
and divide, square root,
square some things, cube some
things, that sort of thing.
So I focused on those things
because they were simple.
And then I was like, OK,
if I can use these basic
mathematical principles and
just look at-- use these
as the foundation
to go into this,
then we can actually unveil
a sort of sacred science,
because it's nothing--
I mean, it's literally just
counting on your fingers--
multiplying and adding on
your fingers, if you will.
So that's essentially
why I used that.
>>REGINA: And you explained
a little bit a while ago
about how you came to
the numerics of Jesus,
or Yeshua, whatever names you
were going to apply to it.
It had the same
value, but one thing
that was interesting
in there, too,
is that you found that Horus
had the same numeric value.
And if you look at this
through other lenses,
you would find that they would
state that, whether Zoroaster,
Mithras, Jesus, and so forth--
it kind of all goes back to
an entity known as Horus,
that Horus is the
key figure that
runs through all of
these characters' stories
right down to the time of birth,
and the cosmological position
of Earth at that
time, and so forth.
>>LEEDS: Well, in
every culture--
I mean, I'm sure you've
talked about this on your show
quite a bit, but you basically
have this hero archetype.
>>REGINA: Right.
Virgin mother, born
the same day the year,
December 25th right after the
solstice, winter solstice.
>>LEEDS: That sort of idea.
The great solar myth
you could call it,
or whatever, but great
redeemer, mediator, of humanity.
And that's your sort
of hero archetype
that everybody wants to
evolve into, or grow into,
that sort of thing.
So I mean, when you look at--
and Attis, Dionysus, as you
were saying, Zoroaster, Horus,
I mean, you could
just go down the line.
>>REGINA: It's always
the same story.
Do their names kind
of have the same value
when you start running
it through this lens?
>>LEEDS: So this
is the one thing
that I just did with Jesus.
So you go into the original
New Testament written in Greek,
and you go to the name
of Lord Jesus Christ
just as it's given in the
strong concordance of the Bible,
and that's an
exhaustive compendium
of looking at Hebrew, and
Greek, and the English,
and stuff like that.
So let's say we're
just going to look,
and we're going to grab
the cipher for Greek.
We're going to put the
numbers to the letters
of the Greek name
of Jesus Christ.
>>REGINA: Well, this gives
you 800, 88, and 1480.
So if you just do basic
numerology on that, 800--
8 plus 0 plus 0 is 8.
888 is 8 plus 8 plus 8 is 24.
2 plus 4 is 6.
1481 plus 4 plus 8 plus 0 is 13.
1 plus 3 is 4 giving
you the numbers
in the name of
Jesus Christ as it's
given in the original
Greek New Testament--
864.
There's 86,400
seconds in one day--
60 seconds in a minute,
60 minutes an hour,
24 hours in a day.
So if you say, OK, well, what
is the number 864 related to?
Well, the son, of course.
>>REGINA: Right, as we
were going to go next.
So talk about that.
>>LEEDS: And so when you talk
about the great solar myth,
now we'll go to,
OK, now we're going
to look at Jesus the
Son of God in English.
Jesus equals 27.
Christ equals 32.
27 times 32 is 864.
So basically you have a 2000
year old document giving you
a number, and you have
500 year old document
written in a completely
different language, translated
from the original Greek,
giving you the same number.
>>REGINA: And then, of
course, in the great myth,
the great solar myth, Horus is
the representative of the sun.
>>LEEDS: Exactly.
In fact, one of the things-- if
you multiply Yeshua and Horus,
it actually gives
you the number 2160,
which is something you can find
the name of Jesus, actually.
So it's pretty interesting.
>>REGINA: So again, it's
the numbers are tying back
all the myths, and are you
going to perhaps play around
with Mithras and
some of the others,
and see how their names
are relating to this.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, the only
challenges with that is--
you can look at it in English.
>>REGINA: Well, also
the spelling has changed
so drastically through the--
>>LEEDS: Exactly.
That's the fundamental
problem you have.
So that's why I'm really
careful when I do that.
>>REGINA: Because
you'd have to go back
through every known spelling.
>>LEEDS: Yes, and then
you have to go to, OK,
was there a particular
spelling that
was made with a numeric
foundation in it.
We know in Hebrew
and Greek we can
do that because we
have the ciphers,
and we have the original text.
So we can say that, and we can
do that in English now, too.
>>REGINA: In this,
you feel then that--
we're agreeing to agree
on this-- that math
is the language of
God, and I'm saying
it's the organizing principle
of the language of God.
It still gets us
to the same point--
and that, in your view,
we're sleeping in this dream
somewhere, right?
>>LEEDS: That's a
good metaphor for it,
I think, and it's a metaphor
that's used quite a bit.
It's the idea that we're asleep,
and the idea is to wake up.
Awake in English
gematria is 14135.
>>REGINA: And what's that mean?
>>LEEDS: It's an
anagram for 31415.
You find the same
thing in Hebrew.
Genesis 1:1-- the
name of God is Elohim.
When you break this
down numerologically,
it actually gives you the
first five digits of pi,
as well, 3.415 So basically
you have the name of God.
All you do is basically--
>>REGINA: So God
means to be awake.
>>LEEDS: Basically, as far as
I understand it, of course.
>>REGINA: You wake up to God.
>>LEEDS: You wake up to the
recognition of who you are,
what you're doing here, what
your absolute connection to God
is, and there's no question
in the center of your being
once you see it.
Then you look at--
like I said, the
idea of being awake--
that's exactly what it means.
It's like waking up to the
recognition of who you are
and what you're doing
here kind of thing.
So the fact that you have--
>>REGINA: And I think we
all agreed that's the goal.
>>LEEDS: I think so.
I mean, to me, that's what
human beings are here to do--
is to understand who you are.
You're not going to do that
without a study of theology
in my opinion, of
course, because, I mean,
God has created everything.
And one of the
interesting things
about theological studies,
especially in philosophy,
and contemplative work,
and things like that,
when you come into creation,
you're given no answers--
none.
What are you doing here?
What's the purpose of your life?
Where are you going?
What happens when you die?
What's the sun?
What's the moon?
>>REGINA: I say we have a
black hood over our head.
>>LEEDS: Exactly right.
And so that is almost
imperative to me for you
to ask the questions, because
you don't give any answers--
you're not given any answers.
So you go out into this material
world, and you look out,
and you say, OK,
well, I better start
asking some questions to
figure out what I'm doing here.
And to me, that was
actually the purpose
of my life in many respects.
What am I doing here?
I'm here to ask those questions
and find out those answers.
Now, especially in mystical
literature and stuff like that,
the answer is, even though
I'm talking about math,
it's not something that you
can actually just write down.
It's something that must be
realized within the self.
And so that's really, I think,
the crux of the whole thing.
Crux means cross, by
the way, which is,
of course,
multiplication and that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
And I always wonder.
It comes back down to
really kind of simple things
a lot of times in
my own mind when
you're looking at the purpose
of or the point of creation.
I look at the rose.
If you look at the
rose, for example,
yes there is a mathematical
component, right?
I assume there's probably
a geometrical component.
There's definitely the world of
all of the finer senses woven
into it and then the
notion of beauty,
and oftentimes mathematics
demonstrates what
is classically known as beauty.
>>LEEDS: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: So why don't we talk
about that for a little bit,
because to me, a rose may or
may not be here to study itself,
but it certainly is here
to inspire other species,
if not impress itself.
It exists for pure beauty,
the sake of pure beauty.
>>LEEDS: And to communicate
to you something.
>>REGINA: Right.
Exactly.
>>LEEDS: So there's principles.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about that.
>>LEEDS: Let's go
back to Jesus Christ.
You look at Christ.
You look at the Christ--
C-- this is in
English, of course.
C-H-R-I-S-T is the numbers 365--
of course, we all
know what 365 is,
number of days of solar year.
Then you have 567.
You multiply these
numbers across--
3 times 6 times 5 times 5
times 6 times 7 equals 18,900.
Well, you take the square root
of 18,900, and it's 137.47.
I know I'm throwing a
lot of math at you, but--
>>REGINA: That's all right.
Just translate.
>>LEEDS: So look at this again.
Took the numbers of
Christ, multiplied it,
took the square root of it.
We get 137.47.
137.5 is the degree
of phyllotaxis.
The degree of phyllotaxis
is-- and you can actually
take a protractor, and
just go out in your lawn,
and see this yourself-- it's
the way that leaves will arrange
themselves around a plant so
they receive the optimal light
and rain so it grows.
So you don't need to know about
complex mathematics at all.
I mean, you don't even
have to be essentially
smart to actually see, hey--
>>REGINA: That works.
>>LEEDS: --there's
a pattern there.
Well, how do I
identify that pattern.
How do I know that
that has a pattern?
All I got to do is do a little
math, grab that protractor.
So to me, when you talk
about something that is--
of course, everything
is moving, and morphing,
and changing, so you're not
going to always get exactly--
that's the whole point.
Basically, you would have these
fundamental archetypes, phi,
pi, things like
this for phyllotaxis
that the creation moves through.
So we can actually see when
you see a plant growing--
and it moves, and it
bends, and stuff like that,
but at the core of it, you can
see that there is design there.
And all it takes you
to do is just, oh,
that angle is the same there.
Phyllotaxis is based on phi.
>>REGINA: So back to
the rose, and back to
the saying a rose
by any other name.
So there's something
contained within that.
So there has to be the numerics
of that, the mathematics
of that at the base of it.
And again, I go back
to the whole notion
of this esoteric
thing we call beauty.
Are there consistent
elements mathematically
that contribute to
what we call beauty.
>>LEEDS: I mean, the human form
is a perfect example of beauty,
if you will.
>>REGINA: And
supposedly that form
is throughout the universe.
It's a very common form
used for sentient beings
throughout the universes.
>>LEEDS: Yes, and what's
interesting is that--
so let's talk about
phi here a second.
So we're talking about the rose.
Rose goes with phi, as well.
Phi is found in the pentagram.
Draw a perfect pentagram,
and you get the smaller line
segment to the bigger
line segment is 1 to 1.68,
or 1 to 6.8, or 0.618--
excuse me.
Phi-- well, OK, phi
is on your hand.
So I mean, you can actually
divide and actually
find the proportions
of phi on your hand.
Well, how many
fingers do you have?
You have five.
So you put that stamp down, and
you see, OK, there's a circle.
You put a circle around that.
You put the pentagram in there.
You find the ratio of
phi, and you say, OK,
well if this is here and then
I can look down on a plant
and see here that
means that something
between the plant and I--
there's an intelligence
right that grew both of them,
and so that that
allows you to see
that there is a perfection
in creation and design.
And when you see that, of
course, there's beauty.
>>REGINA: What's your
experience of that in nature?
Your personal experience,
your mathematical relationship
to nature since this is your
primary language, I mean,
that you're studying,
you're loving.
>>LEEDS: Alphabet of God--
alphabet of God is zero--
let's do it here.
Alphabet of God-- it's
right here, of course.
0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, 7, 8, and 9.
You get to 10.
You can go 1 plus 0 is 1.
11-- 1 plus 1 is 2.
Those 10 digits can create
any other number in existence.
So that means that essentially
you have an alphabet of God.
That's exactly what
you're talking about.
Those 10 numbers
are the letters that
create numeric words
that we can actually
find throughout creation.
So you've got that.
Now you say-- getting
back to nature,
the first time that I'd ever--
not the first time, but one of
the times it really struck me
that how connected
numbers were to nature,
I was walking in the woods by
myself, and walking in Oregon,
and they have the flower called
trillium-- tri meaning three,
of course--
which is a beautiful flower.
Well, the trillium is based on--
it's a central stalk or stem,
and there's three big leaves,
another layer of three
other leaves, and then
three petals at the top,
and so you actually have
three, three, and three.
And so you can actually look
at this as 123, 456, 789,
and where is that zero?
It's the thing that comes
out as we talked before.
From the nothingness,
sprang forth that idea.
So looking at the flower and
the beauty of the flower,
not actually contemplating
mathematics, but then seeing
the mathematics in
there, said, oh, no, no,
that's why it's beautiful.
You get that.
So that was one of the
first things that was ever--
>>REGINA: So nature
feeds the upliftment
in our own sense of awareness
and opening to the divine.
>>LEEDS: Rose is the
past tense of rise.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>LEEDS: It's that idea
that you have that--
and especially when you look
at the chakra system, back
to the seven, of course.
You start at that
root, and it's the idea
of it's the lower
material world.
It's the eating.
It's the sex.
It's all of that stuff.
You want to take that energy
source that's within you
and rise up through.
And then, of course, you
have the sacred Rosie cross--
>>REGINA: Rosie
cross and all that.
>>LEEDS: Rosicrucians,
of course.
>>REGINA: And it is
considered to be, I think,
a cipher, maybe helichrysum,
the highest frequency in terms
of the scent that it produces.
The actual essential oil is
one of the highest frequencies
of anything on the planet.
>>LEEDS: Interesting.
There's also the sort of
duality of good and evil
in the rose, too, because you
have the thorns of the rose.
>>REGINA: Protection.
>>LEEDS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: It's own
self protection.
>>LEEDS: And then you have
that blooming flower at the top
that smells beautiful.
It looks beautiful.
You can use it as a
perfume and all that stuff.
>>REGINA: And as
a healing agent.
>>LEEDS: And then
of course, I mean,
roses are all sorts of
colors, but a lot of times the
rose is red.
In fact, in esoteric,
it's always shown as red.
Well, then going
back to alchemy,
we can talk about the
negreto, the albedo,
and the rubedo,
which is the red,
and of course
that's the passion.
It's the passion that
you have towards finding
that divine within.
>>REGINA: That would
be interesting.
Yeah, let me know what you find.
If you haven't played
with it yet specifically,
I'd like to know what
you find out about what's
embedded in the rose.
>>LEEDS: Sure.
>>REGINA: Because to me, it's
symbolic of so many things--
>>LEEDS: Yeah, it is.
>>REGINA: --of a
more refined nature.
So in this whole
journey, I mean,
we can talk about math and such
probably for hours and hours,
but I really want to--
>>LEEDS: I certainly can.
>>REGINA: I know you can.
I can't.
You can.
The human implication of it--
what has this mathematical
journey for you
really taught you about
yourself, your own life,
your own experience, your
own place in this universe.
>>LEEDS: It's the thing
I was looking for.
I wanted proof.
I didn't want conjecture.
I didn't want opinion.
>>REGINA: You
wanted proof of God?
>>LEEDS: God.
I wanted proof of the divine.
I wasn't happy with some guru or
some new age person telling me
this is how it is.
I wasn't happy with what
modern science was peddling.
I wasn't happy with
any of that stuff.
There were no answers
that I was finding
in any of those things--
and in the organized religions.
I didn't really find any
answers there either.
So when I went and I
looked at this stuff,
but, like I said, through
the lens of mathematics,
that gave me that answer
that I was looking for.
Now, I'm not claiming that's
the answer for everybody else.
I'm just saying I just want
to share my journey with that
through all this
stuff with people
because it made so much sense
to me, and it's illuminated--
I mean, I don't think the
same as I did when I was 28.
I mean, I literally had
a break of consciousness
that was like I just saw
the world differently.
So, I mean, it's just--
looking around this room,
it's seeing geometry everywhere.
>>REGINA: And beauty everywhere.
You wanted empirical
truth that God exists,
and you're part of it,
and you're growing back
into this yourself.
>>LEEDS: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: That's the
point of the journey.
Absolutely.
And that is the point--
you're right-- of all journeys
and that you found a language
that ties it all together.
It would make sense also
for a lot of other people
who are looking for that
one thing that brings
it together as proof positive.
>>LEEDS: Yeah, that's a
good way of saying it.
>>REGINA: Any final
thoughts before we go?
>>LEEDS: No, I think we did
a good job of covering a lot.
>>REGINA: I think we did, too.
Thank you so much,
Claudia, Marty.
I appreciate it.
I hope this has been elucidating
to you and certainly all of you
that have a deep
understanding of mathematics
and where mathematics
speak to you.
Again, the title of the book is
"The Peacock's Tail" by Marty
Leeds, or Claudia Pavonis.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.